# CryptRouter
Welcome to CryptRouter!<br>CryptRouter is a Python-based script that runs in the command prompt aimed towards helping you traverse and navigate your way throughout the convoluted instances of the essential Dungeons and Dragons Online dungeon, Shadow Crypt.<br>
# Usage
Found in this repository, there exists an executable "CryptRouter.exe" that upon running will open your command prompt and display to you an interactive text-based dialogue between you and the program.<br><br>This program aims to when given your current room, and given a room that you want to arrive at to route you towards that specified destination room as optimally as possible.
# Program Flow
When you launch the program it will ask if you are familiar with the software, if you have it will bypass the introductory preamble and direct you to answer another prompt on whether you are ready to execute the 'meat and potatoes' of the program.<br><br> The first and most contextual question that the program will inquire is if you know which instance you are in, meaning that given different instances there are different room topologies (different amounts/types of rooms in an instance with different directions and such). To the following question, you can either answer affirmatively or negatively, when answering affirmatively you will then be directed to specify your instance. If answered negatively, the program will then ask you if you have the ability to use the dimension door spell and return the beginning room (which is common among all instances) so that you can travel eastward and gather information to answer the question of which instance you are in. If you cannot use the dimension door spell, the program will attempt to diagnose your instance by asking for your current and desired room to reach for each of the three instances asking you if any of the instances are accurate to its path and if it had gotten you to your desired room. Furthermore, if you had discovered your instance with this feature and wish to reach another room, the program will remember which instance you are in and re-prompt you with current and destination rooms for each iteration respectively.<br><br> The next question that the program will ask you is what instance you are in (assuming you did not answer negatively to the previous one). The answer to this question (of either red, green, or blue) will let the program know which of the three instance topologies to load and utilize in your routing effort.<br><br>Next, similarly to before the program will display to you all of the rooms in its instance and prompt you for your current room and desired destination room; this process can be repeated as well upon indication to the program of such.<br><br> That is the general logic-flow of the program.
# Demonstrations
Below are listed links to my youtube channel where I demonstrate how to use the software for each of the three instances as well if you are unsure which instance you are in.<br><br> - Red Instance Demonstration: https://youtu.be/W0cZpPs1Qsg<br><br> - Green Instance Demonstration: https://youtu.be/entJTbXNCXU<br><br> - Blue Instance Demonstration: https://youtu.be/mQyamCUO-SY<br><br> - Unfamiliar/Unsure Instance Demonstration: https://youtu.be/K8FAiZnoE-Y
# Bug Reporting
Any bugs encountered can be reported in the form below.<br><br>https://docs.google.com/forms/d/e/1FAIpQLSertiSA4jO0ogXgs59c2wmCcNAsT-Lf8h43BnrSMBDlFge9_g/viewform?usp=header
# About Dungeons and Dragons Online and Shadow Crypt
Dungeons and Dragons Online (also referred to as "DDO") is an immersive MMORPG (Massively Multiplayer Online Role-Playing Game) that was released back in February of 2006.<br><br>Dungeons and Dragons Online as you can imagine is based upon the hit tabletop/pen and paper game Dungeons and Dragons, and consequently is one of many MMORP interpretations of the classic game.<br><br>What sets Dungeons and Dragons Online apart from all of its competitors is its in-depth character customization & progression that allows (currently) a player to progress from levels 1 through 34. The "Heroic" levels within the game are the levels 1 through 20 & the Shadow Crypt dungeon is a level 9 quest that is the final quest in the second Necropolis quest arc.<br><br> The importance of the Shadow Crypt dungeon lies within its experience density where experience is what allows a player to progress from one level to another. Understandably, Shadow Crypt given its convoluted and complex nature possesses a large sum of experience to the player; for most players it is absolutely imperative to play through this specific dungeon as the player makes their way through the heroic levels.
# What CryptRouter Seeks to Accomplish
Given the complex topologies of each of the given Shadow Crypt instances (graphically represented in the repository within the "Instance Topologies" file) under normal circumstances, traversing (and completing) the dungeon can be a very long and exhaustive process. Despite this, there are specific well-optimized paths that already exist for the dungeon and of which I have used personally with regularity and without much issue.<br><br>However, what does not (atleast before CryptRouter) is any contingency plan (outside of the free dimension door charge given to the player) for what the player should do if they wander off of the aforementioned "well-optimized paths"<br><br>What CryptRouter does, is it supplies the player with a dynamic tool that gauges the players current situation aswell as where the player wishes to go & determines which path might be most optimal for the player to take to reach their desired room alongside the very helpful aforementioned "well-optimized paths".
# Nuts & Bolts
The Crypt Router script, written in Python (personal choice; not for any particular gain or benefit) utilized three primary objects that were defined within the code: Pointers, Rooms, and Instances.<br><br> If you're at all familiar with graphs or graph theory within Mathematics and/or Computer Science, it is understood that to have a graph you must have nodes/vertices (of which the Room object serve the purpose), edges (of which the Pointer object serves the purpose), and the graph topology which being comprised of nodes and edges (as mentioned, Rooms as vertices, Pointers as edges) with the Instance object in effect serving as the graph landscape/topology.<br><br>As a result of organizing these rooms in such a way, it allows these rooms to be traversed and organized through various well-studied routing algorithms, allowing the program in real-time to use these algorithms to provide the user with a topology-accurate path from current room to destination.
# Breadth-First Search vs. Depth-First Search Algorithms
When designing the program, I had weighed the two primary routing algorithms that I have studied in my undergraduate bachelors Computer Science education, with the algorithms being Breadth-First search and Depth-First search.<br><br>Ultimately, I landed on the Breadth-First search algorithm as the most optimal baseline algorithm for navigating the user through the complex topologies of the Shadow Crypt dungeon for two primary reasons:<br>1. With the Breadth-First Search algorithm, paths remain constant for the player to utilize.<br>2. With the Breadth-First Search algorithm, paths are always the shortest-possible path.<br><br> Both of these qualities the Depth-First search algorithm cannot guarantee. Despite this, there exists one distinct advantage to the Depth-First Algorithm, it is must less memory-intensive than its Breadth-First counterpart.<br><br>In the face of this relatively enticing advantage, I determined that it would be a worth-while trade off for the sake of user experience given the The Shadow Crypt topology is not obvious to the user & Breadth-First Search(BFS) allows for fewer-hope paths to be found more efficiently (comparatively speaking to Depth-First Search[DFS]), meaning that this tool is more likely to be used in cases where the user mistakenly takes the wrong path and allows for the user to correct-course much quicker, and often times this will be by means of only a few hops.
# My Modifications Made to the Breadth-First Search Algorithm
Quite crucially, I labeled the Breadth-First Search algorithm as a "baseline" for navigating the instances.<br><br> This is as a result of a particular type of room within the Shadow Crypt room-topology called the "Maze" these rooms are littered with dynamically changing portcullis' that can in certain cases restrict the players ability to traverse through the room.<br><br>My fix to this issue was to instead of using a queue as Breadth-First Search traditionally does, would be to use a priority queue, giving the maze rooms a lower priority than that of any of the other rooms given the often-experienced difficulties traversing through the room-topology.<br><br> If you're at all familiar any of these routing algorithms you may have wondered why not just use Dijkstra's Algorithm or label your modification to the Breath-First Search algorithm correspondingly?<br><br>That is because, when Dijkstra's Algorithm is utilized it is utilized in scenarios where edges have weight; even though the mazes have a lower priority, the pointers to such rooms are not more or less costly than that of any of the other rooms, so I did not deem it appropriate to reduce my current algorithm to that of Dijkstra's Algorithm.
# Acknowledgements
I would like to acknowledge that Dungeons and Dragons Online belongs to, was, and currently is being developed by Standing Stone Games and is not in any way my work; that I simply used the Shadow Crypt dungeon as a means to apply my studies to something that I have a particular interest in.<br><br>I would also like to acknowledge the available resources on the DDO Wiki such as the graphic provided by 'Rhone of Khyber' as well as the many other graphical representations available there.<br><br>The availablity of the aforementioned graphics significantly reduced the investment of time that otherwise would have been required to collect data for the room topology in each of the three instances and in many ways made this project possible.
